°	 Outline the impact of this proposal on redress and equity (in terms of race and gender) in relation to the issues listed under “Potential Impact on HR Development”.



This project provides an excellent opportunity to attract young,
historically disadvantaged, students into postgraduate astronomical
research, an experience that will hopefully lead into a future
research career. Cosmology is a field at the frontier of scientific
discovery and the fundamental nature of questions tackled in this
proposal will appeal to, and stimulate, young, questioning minds.
With the large number of honours projects available, this project is
particularly well suited to introducing students to scientific
research.  Moreover, the high profile of the Southern African Large
Telescope, the Karoo Array Telescope and the Atacama Cosmology
Telescope project will provide further incentive for formerly
disadvantaged students to become involved in cutting-edge scientific
research. The University of KwaZulu-Natal has grown from a merger of
two universities, one that was a historically disadvantaged
institution. The UKZN environment provides a unique opportunity to
attract intelligent historically disadvantaged and female
undergraduates into postgraduate research.

Central to the formative training of these students will be the
availability of student assistantships that will allow them to become
oriented to the research environment at an early stage. This will help
to break down any barriers that would otherwise prevent them from
pursuing a research career. Within our group we have created a vibrant
atmosphere around research activities that include discussion groups,
informal presentations, lunch seminars and journal clubs. All these
activities, undertaken in a very social setting, will help to
integrate disadvantaged students into the research environment. The
hope is that this lively and relaxed atmosphere will help to overcome
any social barriers that may exist in preventing disadvantaged or
female students taking up research careers in the mathematical and
physical sciences. 

The UKZN group has experience in undergraduate supervision and
astronomical training and will utilize this experience over the
duration of this project.  There has been a sustained effort to give
undergraduate students research exposure, many of whom are funded by
an SKA program, that is now paying off.  The student pipeline is now
full and starting from this year, several students per year (a
significant number of which are female/historically disadvantaged) are
graduating and taking up MSc and PhD studies.  UKZN has also just been
awarded a node of the National Astrophysics and Space Sciences Program
(NASSP), which will support 20 honours and 20 MSc students per year at
UKZN, giving us another large pool of historically disadvantaged
students to engage in cutting-edge research.  
