Outline the impact this proposal has on human resource development in terms of:
°	 Extent and appropriateness of research training (e.g. opportunities for training and experience provided to students)
°	  Nature and significance of co-investigators and research collaborators
°	   Nature and significance of inter-institutional collaborations
°	    Appropriateness of human resource capacity development for a specific science domain/discipline/area of application/employment sector or for the development of scarce skills
°	     Issues relating to redress and equity should be specifically addressed in the next section


This project is an excellent way to train students through a strong
international collaboration.  During the initial phase of deploying
SCI-HI to Marion & Gough, a Master's student will join in the
deployment and do low-level data checks.  Another student will
carry out the detailed data analysis - this can happen at either the
Master's or PhD level, depending on student interest and
availability.  If at a PhD level, the student will go beyond data
analysis to do theoretical work to better understand the implications
to cosmology of our results.  

There are many student opportunities during construction of the
phase-2 instrument.  Instrument components are quite modular, so it
can support 3-6 honours students, or some of those projects can be
combined into 2-3 Master's projects.  There will also be at least one
additional Master's and one PhD projects for analyzing the data.

Key to this is strong ties with Jeff Peterson at Carnegie-Mellon. His
group are world leaders in the field and this project, through the
geographic advantage of the South African sub-Antarctic island
research bases, would provide up to ten South African postgrad
students opportunities to work closely with them.  The students will
be trained in the sorts of low-frequency radio work that are becoming
increasingly important in South Africa with the coming of the Square
Kilometre Array.  Unlike virtually all other astronomy experiments,
the short timescale associated with this project will give the
students the chance to see an instrument built, deployed, and the data
then analyzed during the course of a PhD career.

