Indicate the relevance of the proposed research in relation to the following:
째	  Expected national and/or international acclaim for the research and contribution of research outputs to building the knowledge base
째	   Exploitability of outputs e.g. applicability to community development, improved products, processes, services in SA, region and/or continent
째	    Expected effects of research results on user sectors
째	     Appropriateness of the knowledge dissemination strategy in view of the above

If successful, this research will have major international importance.
Studies of the first stars are one of the hottest research areas of
the coming decade, and studies of the dark ages hold the potential to
revolutionize our understandings of the universe.  The remoteness of
the sub-Antarctic islands give South Africa a unique geographical
advantage in this field, because only incredibly remote sites have a
chance of succeeding in measuring the global signal.  This work
complements other major efforts in the field that, due to experimental
design, will not be able to make this measurement.  Other experiments
will measure the spatial clumpiness of the first stars; we will
measure the average properties and how they change with time.  

In addition to remoteness, the southerly location of particularly
Marion Island possibly opens up a whole new field of observations.
The ionisphere blocks low frequencies, but during polar winters, the
ionosphere weakens substantially, meaning that we may have a chance at
studying the universe during its dark ages, before the first stars
turned on.  That has the potential to revolutionize all of
astrophysics, as the amount of information available in principle is a
billion time more than what we currently have.  It will be impossible
to study the dark ages from most places on Earth, but with the weak
ionosphere during winter nights at these islands, South Africa has a
chance.  The alternative is likely a base on the far side of the moon,
a vastly harder and more expensive undertaking.  We will quanitfy the
frequency range that can be useful observed from the ground.  If
that is promising, this project will lay the groundwork for major dark
ages experiments that could be, a decade from now, our most important source of knowledge
of the universe around.

Our results will be published in leading journals in the field.  The
team has an extensive track record in publishing thier work with each
team member having written scores of papers.  
