"State the main research question or problem statement."

The primary goals for this proposal are two fold.

The universe was a very different place in its infancy.  Immediately
after the big bang, there were no stars or galaxies, or even any
elements heaver than helium (except for trace amounts of lithium and
beryllium - your laptop battery is a relic of the big bang).  Initially, the universe was too hot for electrons and
protons to stick together to form neutral atoms, and since free
electrons are extremely efficient at scattering light, the universe
was opaque.  About 400,000 years after the big bang, the expanding
universe had cooled enough so that neutral hydrogen atoms formed, and
the universe became transparent.  We can see a snapshot of the
universe at this early time, called the Cosmic Microwave Background
(CMB).  We know from observations of the CMB that the universe was
then dark for around 500 million years at which point it lit up as the
first objects in the cosmos formed, but we know very little about how
this happened.  Even the 500-million year estimate for the dark ages
has considerable uncertainty in it. Today, heavy elements like carbon
and oxygen (called metals by astronomers) play a key role in how stars
form, even if they are present only in trace amounts.  However, the
first generation of stars would have looked very different due to the
total lack of metals.  They are expected to have been heaver and burnt
out much more quickly than today's stars.  In fact, despite intensive
searches, no metal-free stars have ever been found.  So, we know that
we have never seen any of these unique objects.  Because of the
finite speed of light we do have another possible way of seeing the
first stars.  By looking far away, we look back in time and in
principle, if we look far enough, we can watch the universe light up.  The distances
involved are tremendous, though, and current telescopes are too weak
to see the primordial stars.  So, due to the lack of data. we have only a very poor understanding of
the cosmic dawn.  One of the main goals of astronomy in the coming
decade is to try to understand how the universe went from dark to
light, full of the stars and galaxies we see today.

Perhaps the single most important tool we have to study the first
stars is the hyperfine line of atomic hydrogen.  There is a slight
energy difference between when the electron and proton spins are
aligned and opposite to each other in a hydrogen atom, causing it to have a
spectral line at a rest-frame wavelength of 21-cm, or a frequency of
1.4 GHz.  Because the expansion of the universe stretches out the light
travelling through it, we expect to see the 21-cm radiation from the
era of the first stars at much lower frequencies. 
Light emitted earlier in the universe has been stretched out more, so
by looking at the hydrogen brightness as a function of frequency, we
can actually watch the first stars be born, heat the hydrogen, and
eventually ionize it, causing the 21-cm line to disappear.  The amount
of stretching is referred to by astronmers as the redshift "z", with
the observed frequency equal to the rest frequency divided by (1+z).
Because we actually observe redshift rather than time, astronomers use
redshift as their clock, and the signals we are searching for are at
redshifts z ~ 7-20, which we see here at ~70-200 MHz.  

A first detection of the 21-cm line from the era of the first stars
(called the Epoch of Reionization or EoR because the first stars break
up the hydrogen atoms back into separate protons and electrons) is one of the holy grails of modern
astronomy, and several groups are racing to measure it.
There are two main, and complementary, ways in which astronomers are
searching for it.  The first is using arrays of radio telescopes to
search for fluctuations in the 21-cm background caused by the
clumpiness of the young universe - basically to see the very first
patches of the universe to light up.  The Square Kilometre Array (SKA)
site in the Karoo hosts one such array (the Precision Array for
Probing the Epoch of Reionization, or PAPER) that has published some
of the best limits so far, and will host the next-generation Hydrogen
Epoch of Reionization Array, or HERA.  Proposers Sievers and Chiang
are part of both these efforts.  The second approach is to look at the
average hydrogen brightness across the whole sky.  This would tell us
the mean gas behaviour, and is information that arrays of telescopes
like PAPER and HERA are intrinsically insensitive to.  Co-I Peterson is one of the
world leaders in this area, and his experiment SCI-HI (ApJ 782,9 -
2014) has published
some of the best limits on the mean (global) hydrogen signal.  The
global brightness signal is actually fairly large - models vary
substantially due to our poor understanding of the universe at these
early times, but typical signals are in the range of a tenth of a
degree.  The challenge is in cleaning contaminating signals out from
the desired cosmological one.  The Milky Way emits copious amounts at
these low frequencies, with the average sky brightness ~1000K.  So, to
clean out the Milky Way is an substantial analysis challenge.  Further, you may
recognize 100 MHz from your FM radio dial.  At the critical frequencies
for EoR observations, man-made radio-frequency interference (RFI) is a
considerable challenge, and over the vast majority of land swamps even
the emission from the galaxy.  Global signal experiments like SCI-HI are
significantly more sensitive to RFI than the arrays searching for the
small-scale signals.  The flip side of this is that the global signal is
significantly larger than the small-scale one, so if the galaxy and
RFI can be dealt with, one only needs a few hours to a few days of
observing time with a very simple instrument to make a first
measurement of the EoR signal.  

South Africa has a unique geographical advantage in searching for the
global signal.  The sub-Antarctic islands (Marion and Gough) are some of
the most remote places on earth, 2000+ km from the nearest major
population centres.  Peterson & collaborators have already deployed
SCI-HI to Guadalupe Island, a volcanic island about 200 km off the
coast of Mexico.  While greatly reduced compared to continental sites,
there was still about one Kelvin of RFI (Voytek et al. 2014), an order
of magnitude larger than the expected signal.  That makes measuring
the global signal virtually impossible, since there is no easy way to
clean the RFI out from the data (unlike the galaxy, which should have
a simple behaviour as a function of frequency).  Since they are ten times
further from continental landmasses and have no heavily populated
islands nearby, we expect Marion and Gough to have much less RFI,
hopefully low enough to allow us to directly measure, for the first
time, the original stars.  Our proposed project has two phases:
first, redeploying the SCI-HI experiment to Marion and Gough to test
the RFI environments there.  This would only require a few days at
each location and so would not require a winter-over.  Rather, just
going down via ship and running SCI-HI while the ship is in port
should be sufficient to determine if either island would be
appropriate.  SCI-HI is small and highly portable - about 2 metres
across, plus an ordinary computer required to run it, so
environmental impact would be negligible.  Ideally, we would also set
up SCI-HI away from the science bases to minimize locally generated
RFI (from, e.g. computers or power generation) and/or request
radio-quiet times at the research stations where local sources of RFI
will be turned off.  Should either site
look promising, the next phase would be to mount an antenna for a
winter season that would use knowledge gained from SCI-HI to improve
the design, and measure the global 21-cm EoR signal. 










First, to test the islands (Marion, Gough) for suitability in low frequency radio astronomy applications. In particular, to investigate the Radio Frequency Interference (RFI) environment on the islands over the course of the year in the frequency range of 10-150 MHz.

(Is this the frequency range we want to target or do we want to expand to
higher frequencies?)

Second, to develop and deploy a simple radio telescope system for measurement of theglobal Hydrogen 21-cm signal in the same frequency range (10-150 MHz).
