°	 Provide the context (national and/or international) of the proposed research together with a review of the literature and other relevant resources.
°	  State the strategic importance of the research and how the research is relevant to the selected NRF Focus Area (please read the Descriptions of the Focus Area Programme at www.nrf.ac.za).

Need to add context here.

V1.

Very few observations constrain models of the Dark Ages, during which the simple initial conditions seen with the Cosmic Microwave Background (CMB) evolved into the complex structures we see today. A key process during the Dark Ages is the formation of the first (Pop III.1) stars in dark matter minihaloes with about 1-100 million times the mass of the sun at redshifts z~20-30.[1][2] These first, short-lived stars provided the universe with the heavy elements necessary for subsequent generations of stars and planets.

Besides providing heavy elements, the first stars impacted the intergalactic medium (IGM), transforming it from neutral hydrogen into the ionized state we see today. We can learn about first star formation by examining the all-sky (global) 21 cm brightness temperature (Tb) in the IGM. Prior to reionization Tb is is characterized by decrement followed by increment, which can be understood through the following process.

Lyman-alpha photons produced by the first stars couple the spin (Ts) and kinetic (Tk) temperature of the IGM through the Wouthuysen-Field mechanism.[3][4] Because Tk is well below the CMB temperature (Tg) at z~20-30, this coupling causes a decrement in Tb proportional to 1-Tg/Tk. Later the IGM is heated by x-rays or gamma-rays and Ts rises above Tg, ending the Tb trough. 

Observations of the Tb trough can be made by measurement of the 21 cm global spectrum.[5][6] The predicted depth (~ 0-300 mK), width (~ 0-50 MHz), and center frequency (~ 60-100 MHz) are all dependent on the model of first star formation. Measurement of the 21-cm global spectrum from 5-150 MHz would allow observers to investigate a large range of possible models of first star formation.

Several experiments seek to measure the Tb trough in the 21-cm global spectrum. These include the 'Large aperture Experiment to detect the Dark Ages' (LEDA) [7], an expanded EDGES [8], the 'LOFAR Cosmic Dawn Search' (LOCOS) [9][10], 'Sonda Cosmologica de las Islas para la deteccion de HIdrogeno neutro' (SCI-HI) [11], and the proposed 'Dark Ages Radio Explorer' (DARE) [12]. 

Current experiments are limited by atmospheric effects and terrestrial radio frequency interference (RFI). On the low frequency end, the maximum usable frequency (MUF) for AM radio directly traces the frequency at which the atmosphere blocks signals from the sky. At mid-latitudes the MUF is generally above 30-40 MHz, limiting observations. However, at polar latitudes the MUF can be as low as 5 MHz; allowing observations to be made to lower frequencies and higher redshifts. 

At some higher frequencies, experiments are limited by RFI from a number of sources. These include the FM radio band (88-108 MHz), where signals from local stations are larger than the signal from the sky. Signals from FM stations fall off as 1/r^2, so increasing the distance from any FM stations makes observations in this band possible. Testing with the SCI-HI experiment on Isla Guadalupe, about 250 km from the nearest radio sources, has demonstrated the possibility of observation in remote locations. Marion and Gough islands, located much further from the nearest coast (about 1500-2500 km), should provide an excellent RFI environment for radio experiments. 


References:
[1] K. Omukai and F. Palla. Formation of the First Stars by Accretion. ApJ, 589:677-687,June 2003.
[2] V. Bromm. Formation of the First Stars. Reports on Progress in Physics 76;11 November 2013.
[3] S. A. Wouthuysen. On the excitation mechanism of the 21-cm (radio-frequency) interstellar hydrogen emission line. AJ, 57:31-32, 1952.
[4] G. B. Field. Excitation of the Hydrogen 21-CM Line. Proceedings of the IRE, 46:240-250, January 1958.
[5] P. A. Shaver, R. A. Windhorst, P. Madau, and A. G. de Bruyn. Can the reionization epoch be detected as a global signature in the cosmic background? Astronomy and Astrophysics, 345:380-390, May 1999.
[6] J. R. Pritchard and A. Loeb. 21 cm cosmology in the 21st century. Reports on Progress in Physics, 75(8):086901, August 2012.
[7] Large-Aperture Experiment to detect the Dark Ages (LEDA). LEDA, http :
==www:cfa:harvard:edu=LEDA=science:html. July 2013.
[8] J. D. Bowman, A. E. E. Rogers, and J. N. Hewitt. Toward Empirical Constraints on the Global Redshifted 21 cm Brightness Temperature During the Epoch of Reionization. ApJ, 676:1-9, March 2008.
[9] M. P. van Haarlem, M. W. Wise, etal. LOFAR: The LOw-Frequency ARray. Astronomy and Astrophysics, 556:A2, August 2013.
[10] H. K. Vedantham, L. V. E. Koopmans, A. G. de Bruyn, S. J. Wijnholds, B. Ciardi, and M. A. Brentjens. Chromatic effects in the 21 cm global signal from the cosmic dawn. MNRAS 437:1056-1069 January 2014
[11] T. C. Voytek, A. Natarajan, J. M. Jauregui-Garcia, J. B. Peterson, and O. Lopez-Cruz. Probing the Dark Ages at Z~20: The SCI-HI 21 cm All-Sky Spectrum Experiment. ApJ 782 L9, February 2014.
[12] J. O. Burns, J. Lazio, S. Bale, J. Bowman, R. Bradley, C. Carilli, S. Furlanetto, G. Harker, A. Loeb, and J. Pritchard. Probing the rst stars and black holes in the early Universe with the Dark Ages Radio Explorer (DARE). Advances in Space Research, 49:433-450, February 2012.


V2

Emission and absorption due to the 21-cm spin flip transition of
neutral atomic Hydrogen (referred to as HI by astronomers) have been proposed as valuable tools to probe
the physics of the Universe at early times.  Experiments studying the
early universe through the 21-cm transition are of two kinds: mapping
experiments that compute the power spectrum of 21-cm fluctuations and
all-sky experiments that measure the averaged 21-cm brightness
temperature. These are also known as ‘global signal
experiments’. Mapping experiments include the Precision Array for
Probing the Epoch of Reionization (PAPER), the Giant Metrewave
Radio Telescope Epoch of Reionization (GMRT-EoR), the Low
Frequency Array for Radio Astronomy (LOFAR), the Murchison
Widefield Array (MWA), the Hydrogen Epoch of Reionization Array
(HERA, recently awarded seed funding by the US National Science
Foundation for construction in South Africa) and the planned Square
Kilometer Array (SKA). All-sky 
experiments include the Experiment to Detect the Global EoR Signature
(EDGES), Large-Aperture Experiment to Detect the Dark Ages (LEDA) and the proposed Dark Ages Radio Explorer (DARE).

The first stars to form are composed of primordial elements. These
stars, called Population III.1, are thought to form in dark matter minihalos
of mass ≈ 1-100 million times the mass of the sun at a redshift z ≈
20-30 (100-200 million years after the big bang) and provide ultraviolet
illumination of the HI. Supernovae from these short lived, massive stars enriched the Universe with heavy elements,
paving the way for the subsequent generations of lower mass stars and
planets that we see today.

Formation of the first stars is thus a subject of broad impact, but it
is difficult to constrain these models due to the absence of
observations at high redshifts. Formation of the first stars results
in the production of Lyman-alpha photons, which are efficient in coupling
the spin (T_s ) and kinetic (T_k ) temperatures of HI through the
Wouthuysen-Field mechanism. At z ≈ 20-30 the neutral gas kinetic
temperature T_k is proportional to (1 + z)^2 is well below the CMB temperature
(T_CMB). The Wouthuysen-Field mechanism sets T s = T k , and predicts
a significant trough in the 21-cm brightness temperature (T_b, the
quantity actually measured by telescopes) around the redshift of first
star formation, with T_b proportional to (T_s − 
T_CMB )/T_S ≈ −T_CMB/T_k . Later, heating of the gas by X-rays or
gamma-rays sets T_s=T_k >> T_CMB. The brightness temperature of the
hyperfine transition then enters the emission saturation
regime where T_b is small and positive. Later
the 21-cm brightness decreases to zero as the Universe reionizes and
there is no more neutral hydrogen left. The
processes described above result in a trough in the 21-cm brightness
temperature spectrum. Detection and measurement of this trough
requires the measurement of an all-sky spectrum, which is the goal of
this proposed work. Such a measurement will provide information on the
properties of the first stars and X-ray sources. 
%Calculated 21-cm brightness spectra are shown in Fig. ?? from [?,?].

A key difficulty for all these experiments is the much brighter
Galactic continuum emission, which must be subtracted in order to
measure the 21-cm flux. At the low end of the frequency range of
interest for reionization, 50 MHz, the Galactic brightness temperature at high Galactic
latitude is about 5000K. The synchrotron spectrum declines as ∼ ν −2.5
and at the high end, 250 MHz, the sky brightness has fallen to about
80 K. Underneath this sloping foreground lies the 10-200 mK features
due to 21-cm emission and absorption.

The Galactic synchrotron emission mechanism is believed to produce a
spectrum that is quite featureless apart from a smooth power law,
allowing detection of the features we seek. However, to adequately
remove even a smooth power law the brightness itself must be measured
with a precision of a part in 100,000. This very precise calibration of the
spectrometer is needed across about an octave of frequency. The
calibration strategy that has worked best for us so far is to use the
daily variation of the Galactic brightness as the Milky Way rises and
sets as a an on-sky calibration source. We assume the spectrum of the Galactic emission is
much smoother than the 21-cm signal we seek, and remove a low order
polynomial in log(frequency) vs. log(intensity). This technique has the advantage that the
entire system is calibrated end-to-end, without disconnecting the
antenna. The disadvantage is that we must assume the spectral
smoothness of the Galactic flux (although that appears to be a very
good description).

Observations from the South African sub-Antarctic islands may also
allow an exciting new cosmological measurement.  The upper atmosphere
has a layer where incoming solar radiation ionizes molecules in the
air, called the ionosphere.  At low frequencies, the ionosphere
reflects radio waves, with the cutoff set by the density of
ions in the ionosphere.  This phenomenon is well known in radio
communications and is why low-frequency transmissions (like AM radio) can sometimes be
picked up from thousands of kilometres away.  The highest frequency at
which radio waves are reflected is called the Maximum Usable Frequency
(MUF) since frequencies above that only work for line-of-sight
communications.  This also means astrophysical signals below the MUF
are reflected back into space and so cannot be observed from the
ground.  The MUF tends to be highest (worst for astronomy) where the
sun is overhead, so summer/equatorial regions have the highest MUFs,
and day is worse than night.  During polar winters, the lack of
sunlight means that the ionosphere substantially recombines, and the
MUF can drop considerably.  The MUF over most of the planet is in the
20-40 MHz range, but nights at Marion routinely drop to 6-7 MHz
(realtime MUF maps can be seen at
http://www.spacew.com/www/realtime.php).  This means that we may be
able to do astrophysics at frequencies that are impossible to do from
any of the major radio observatories on Earth.  We may be able to use
the 21-cm hydrogen line to observe the universe not just at redshifts
around 20, but at redshifts of 50-150, well before the first stars (we
think) when the universe is as young as 10 million years old (less
than one thousandth of its current age of around 14 billion years
old).  Telescopes have been proposed on the moon for this redshift range
(2009arXiv0909.1509B,2011AA...525A.128P,2009NewAr..53....1J),
but we now believe that winter conditions in the polar regions may
make this work possible from the surface of the earth. At
mid-latitudes, from the earth’s surface this spectral range is very
difficult to use for astronomy because of strong shortwave broadcast
signals and ionospheric reflection. In the winter, on the polar cap
these broadcast signals are much weaker than at mid-latitudes, and may
be entirely absent for periods of time.  The work proposed here, at no
additional cost, would be a key step in understanding if this era of
the universe can be studied from the ground.
