°	 Provide details on the aims of the research project.
°	  These should focus on research-related aims and not capacity or human resource development aims.

<<<<<<< HEAD
The primary goals for this proposal are two fold.

First, to test the islands (Marion, Gough) for suitability in low frequency radio astronomy applications. In particular, to investigate the Radio Frequency Interference (RFI) environment on the islands over the course of the year in the frequency range of 5-150 MHz.

Second, to develop and deploy a simple radio telescope system for measurement of the global hydrogen 21-cm signal in the same frequency range (5-150 MHz).

=======
The research aims of this project are as follows:  

1) Test Gough and Marion islands to see if they are suitable for
measuring the global signal from the first generation of stars.
Man-made radio frequency interference (RFI) is a serious problem for
making this measurement - to get away from it, other groups have begun
pushing for deployments to the far side of the moon!  We hope that
Marion and/or Gough are remote enough to enable this measurement to be
done from the ground, for an extremely modest cost.  This involved
deploying the SCI-HI experiment to Gough and Marion, an instrument
build by Tabitha Voytek, a graduating PhD student of co-I Peterson.
Previous work by team members using SCI-HI has shown that 200 km off
the coast is not far enough. Both Gough and Marion should be tested,
since Marion is further from small population centres, while Gough is
further from any continental populations (but significantly closer to
the main islands of Tristan da Cunha).


2) Develop/improve techniques for removing contaminating signals from
within the Milky Way.  Substantial work has already been done in the
previous deployment of SCI-HI off the coast of Mexico.  However,
should we make a detection of the first stars (which is possible even
in the site testing phase), more work on galactic removal will be
required.

3) Design/build/deploy an improved experiment for a full season at the
most appropriate site, chosen in consultation with SANAP.  This
phase-2 experiment would draw on the knowledge learned with SCI-HI to
improve the design, mitigating instrumental systematics.  The
instrument would also be designed to make the first constraints ever
on the properties of the universe during the cosmolical dark ages,
the era after the big bang but before the first stars formed.

4) Using the measurements from the phase-2 experiment, study the first
stars in the universe.  Through this data we will be able to tell the
relative importance of stars and quasars in lighting up the universe,
which is currently unknown.  We will also be able to trace out when
and how quickly the first stars formed, and how this period ended as
the neutral hydrogen gets ionized.  
>>>>>>> upstream/master

