°	This section includes the workplan which should focus on research activities and their associated milestones.
°	 Description should also include information on timeframes and responsibilities, how students will be involved, availability of specialized equipment, infrastructure and resources and other relevant information.

Timeline:  This is our ideal timeline and is achievable if space on
the ship and permission to set up SCI-HI for a few days on either of
the sub-Antarctic islands is obtained.  If this is not possible, all
dates could be pushed back by a year.  Note that if ship schedules
permit, we might be able to to site test both Marion and Gough in the
same summer season.

2015 summer season: Trip to islands for preliminary site testing and
deployment of previously built experiment (SCI-HI). Would only be
there during the ship  turnaround period at one of the islands.
Either Marion or Gough would be suitable, depending on logistics.  MSc
student to accompany SCI-HI builder Tabitha Voytek.  The development
hardware needed for the experiment is a portable Vector Network
Analyzer, and a portable Spectrum Analyzer.  If they are available
on-site they can be borrowed, otherwise we must purchased them.
Deployment resources are either a small portable generator (preferred)
or batteries. 


End of 2015:  paper describing RFI environment and any possible
science detection to be submitted.  This will contribute to MSc/Phd
Theses (one on the experimental run, one on science results).

2016 summer season: Trip to the other island to investigate RFI there.  Note
that both islands should be checked - Marion is further from nearest
inhabited neighbours, but Gough is further from major population
centres.  MSc student to accompany Tabitha Voytek.  Same hardware
requirements as previous year.

End of 2016: paper describing RFI environment at this island and any
possible science detection to be published.  Analysis to be improved
over previous year.  If first results paper is by an MSc student, we
expect this would be a different student.  If PhD, would be the same.

2016-2017: Development and testing of new 21-cm experiment with an improved
antenna,  better data collection hardware/software, and extending to lower
frequency.  Development to happen in the labs of Jeffrey Peterson (Carnegie-Mellon) and
H. Cynthia Chiang (UKZN).  One MSc student
plus 3-6 honours students.  Equipment: Radio antennae (specially
designed and built by collaboration). Electronics needed for e.g. calibration, amplification, filtering
are either commercially available or to be developed by the
collaboration. Data Processing Hardware and Software to be
integrated/developed (Analog-to-Digital converters, Fourier
transformers, low power consumption, SNAP/ROACH boards can do this and
are open source).  


2017-2018 season (if earlier investigations show good RFI): deploy
updated instrument for full season.  Site TBD based on Gough and
Marion site testing.

2018: Analysis of 2017-2018 season data.   Data analysis machines -
analysis can be carried out on new UKZN 1,000 core cluster.  Project
data products should scale to a very modest 100 Gb to 1 Tb in size.
Preparation for and anlysis of this data is a PhD thesis, separate
from the MSc thesis for building the experiment.

End 2018:  Publish final results from improved experiment.  Anticipate
a minimum of four papers in this release:  one describing experiment,
one describing data processing and cleaning of galactic foregrounds,
one describing science result and interpretation, and (at least) one
describing very low frequency observation of the cosmic dark ages.
The work here will be students finishing their thesis and releasing
results.  We do not request experimental support during 2018.

Student Involvement: There are opportunities for student involvement
at each stage of the project. In the experiment development and
testing phase, students will help to build and test each experiment
component locally. This includes antenna design and testing, gpu
programming, electronics component development and testing, and data
analysis code development (including simulation work). During
deployment students will help with data collection, including setup
and maintenance of the system. After deployment, students will help
with data analysis and system improvements, including developing
system improvements based upon deployment experience. 
