°	 Detailed descriptions should be provided on the research approach, methods and techniques.
°	  Description should also include data collection and analysis and other relevant information.

V1

Several experiments seek to measure the Tb trough in the 21-cm global spectrum. These include the 'Large aperture Experiment to detect the Dark Ages' (LEDA), an expanded EDGES, the 'LOFAR Cosmic Dawn Search' (LOCOS), 'Sonda Cosmologica de las Islas para la deteccion de HIdrogeno neutro' (SCI-HI), and the proposed 'Dark Ages Radio Explorer' (DARE). 

A key difficulty for all these experiments is the much brighter Galactic continuum emission, which must be subtracted in order to measure the 21 cm flux. At 50 MHz, the Galactic brightness temperature at high Galactic latitude is about 5000K. The synchrotron spectrum declines as frequency to the −2.5 power. Underneath this sloping foreground lies the 0-300 mK features due to 21-cm emission and absorption.

The Galactic synchrotron emission mechanism is believed to produce a spectrum that is quite featureless apart from a smooth power law, allowing detection of the features we seek. However, to adequately remove even a smooth power law the brightness itself must be measured with a precision ∼ 10^−5 . This very precise calibration of the spectrometer is needed across about an octave of frequency. The calibration strategy that has yielded the best published results (the SCI-HI project) uses the diurnal variation of the Galactic brightness as a an on-sky calibration source. We assume the spectrum of the Galactic emission is much smoother than the 21-cm signal we seek, and remove a low order polynomial in log frequency vs log intensity. This technique has the advantage that the entire system is calibrated end-to-end, without disconnecting the antenna. The disadvantage is that we must assume the spectral smoothness of the Galactic flux.

More sophisticated techniques may be developed and tested as part of the proposed project. 

V2

The first phase of this project is to deploy SCI-HI to Marion and
Gough Islands to test the RFI environments there.  This would entail
going, in consecutive seasons, to Marion & Gough aboard the ship,
setting up SCI-HI, and taking a few days of data.  Graduating PhD
student Tabitha Voytek, who built SCI-HI and deployed it on Guadalupe
Island as part of her thesis with co-I Peterson, has agreed to carry
out these deployments as well, and we expect her to come to UKZN as a postdoc.  A master's student will accompany her,
assisting in the deployment, and carry out low-level data processing
and data quality checks for their thesis.  We are happy to go to
either Marion or Gough first.  Due to the sensitivity of the
experiment to RFI, we would like to request some short periods of
radio-quiet at the research stations while SCI-HI is taking data.
This would require things like turning off computers and any
transmitting devices (like radars or satellite communication
devices).  For the case of strong local transmitters, even if they are
operating outside our desired frequency bands, the power can become so
large that it drives our instruments nonlinear, which makes it
impossible to measure the cosmological signal.  The amount of
radio-quiet time can be quite modest - half an hour every hour over
the course of two days.  We ideally would also
set up SCI-HI on places on the islands far from the research stations
and their locally generated RFI, ideally with a hill/mountain
separating SCI-HI from the stations.  Our first choice would be to run
SCI-HI with a small (400 Watt) portable generator, but if
environmental concerns preclude that, SCI-HI can also be run for short
periods using batteries.  The team already has experience with SCI-HI
deployment and analysis, and so results from these deployments can be
interpreted quickly, particularly with respect to measuring the RFI
level.  SCI-HI is quite robust, and can easily withstand winds up to
80 km/h.  If possible, we would like to carry this phase out during
2015 and 2016, but 2016 and 2017 would also be acceptable.  

If the initial short deployments show that either site is promising,
we will move to phase-2, which consists of installing a log-periodic
antenna for a season and using the experience gained from SCI-HI to
improve the instrument design.  Suitable log-periodic antennas can be
obtained commercially, and are designed for permanent outdoor
deployment and can withstand up to hurrican-force winds.  The antennas
consist of a central pole with wires of varying lenghts coming out of
it, which means the wind loading is very low, and so with more
attention paid to installing of guy wires, the antenna could be
installed so that it can withstand even stronger winds.  The
commercial log-periodic antennas have good response all the way down
to 3 MHz, and so at the same time as we measure the global EoR signal,
we will also find out if we can study the dark ages from the ground
with this phase of the experiment.  If we move onto phase-2, then
students, in collaboration with Peterson, Sievers, Voytek, and Chiang
will construct the new experiment.  A very nice feature of working at
these frequencies is that high-quality off-the-shelf components are
available and so construction is extremely quick.  For reference, in a
recent visit to Durban, Peterson along with our group and staff at the
Durban University of Technology put together a 2-element radio
telescope and successfully combined their signals in the space of
24(!) hours.  This sort of speed is unheard of at other frequencies at
which astronomers work.  

Should we proceed to phase 2, we will consult with SANAP as to if a
winter-over would be needed.  Generally the equipment is extremely
hards, and since it has no moving parts, there is not much to fail
during the course of a season.  Our expectation is that we can install
phase-2 while the ship is in harbour, the experiment can be left
running for the year, and then we collect it during the next season.
For this model to work, we would need to be able to see the data
remotely.  The data rate is very low (a full season would easily fit
on a single hard drive), so we do not expect this requirement to be
onerous.  We might possibly need to enlist the aid of someone on-site
in the event of instrument failure.  For very modest 
cost (in the range of a few tens of thousands of rand) we can have redundant
electronics, so in the event that something does fail, the need for
on-site support could be as simple as flipping a switch. 

We currently do not know the RFI environment near the research
stations - this is the main point, after all, of phase 1.  If there is
significant RFI from the stations, and installing on a remote place is
unfeasible, we will request that the station periodically go
"radio-quiet."  As mentioned previously, this means turning off
computers, transmitting devices, and anything else likely to produce
RFI (which could even include toaster ovens).  To investigate the
ultra low frequency astrophysics does require a winter deployment in
order to observe while the ionosphere is weak.  However, the total
integration time again could be quite modest, so short periods of
radio-quietness would be sufficient for our needs, preferentially late
at night when people are likely to be sleeping anyways.  

The data collection for phase-2 would again be carried out by a single
computer. The analysis would be very similar to phase-1, which is
already substantially solved (see Voytek et al. 2014 for details).
Though, with the increased sensitivity expected from phase-2, new
techniques for better removal of the galaxy may be required.  This
will be an area of active research over the coming years.  The
very low-frequency (~10 MHz) analysis is likely to be sufficiently
different from the EoR (~50-100 MHz) studies that separate postgrad students
will be devoted to each frequency range.  
